[NOISE] In this example,
we will see linear regression.
But before we start,
we need to define the multivariate and
univariate normal distributions.
The univariate normal distribution has the
following probability density function.
It has two parameters, mu and sigma.
The mu is a mean of the random variable,
and the sigma squared is its variance.
Its functional form is given as follows.
It is some normalization constant
that ensures that this probability
density function integrates to 1,
times the exponent of the parabola.
The maximum value of this
parabola is at point mu.
And so the mode of the distribution
would also be the point mu.
If we vary the parameter mu, we will
get different probability densities.
For example, for the green one,
we'll have the mu equal to -4, and for
the red one, we'll have mu equal to 4.
If we vary the parameter sigma squared,
we will get either sharp distribution or
wide.
The blue curve has
the variance equal to 1, and
the red one has variance equal to 9.
The multivariate case
looks exactly the same.
We have two parameters, mu and sigma.
The mu is the mean vector, and
the sigma is a covariance matrix.
We, again, have some normalization
constant, to ensure that the probability
density function integrates to 1, and
some quadratic term under the exponent.
Again, the maximum value of
the probability density function is at mu,
and so the mode of distribution
will also be equal to mu.
In neural networks, for example,
where we have a lot of parameters.
Let's note the number of parameters as t.
The sigma matrix has a lot of parameters,
about D squared.
Actually, since sigma is symmetric,
we need D (D+1) / 2 parameters.
It may be really costly to store such
matrix, so we can use approximation.
For example, we can use diagonal matrices.
In this case, all elements that
are not on the diagonal will be zero,
and then we will have only D parameters.
An even more simple case
has only one parameter,
it is called a spherical
normal distribution.
In this case, the signal matrix equals to
some scalar times the identity matrix.
Now let's talk about linear regression.
In linear regression,
we want to fit a straight line into data.
We fit it in the following way.
You want to minimize the errors,
and those are,
the red line is the prediction and
the blue points are the true values.
And you want, somehow,
to minimize those black lines.
The line is usually found with
so-called least squares problem.
Our straight line is parameterized
by weights, vector, and w.
The prediction of each point is
computed as w transposed times xi,
where xi is our point.
Then, we compute the total sum squares,
that is,
the difference between the prediction and
the true value square.
And we try to find the vector w
that minimizes this function.
Let's see how this one works for
the Bayesian perspective.
Here's our model.
We have three random variables,
the weights, the data, and the target.
We're actually not interested in modeling
the data, so we can write down the joint
probability of the weights and
the target, given the data.
This will be given by
the following formula.
It would be the probability of target
given the weights of the data, and
the probability of the weights.
Now we need to define
these two distributions.
Let's assume them to be normal.
The probability of target
given the weights and
data would be a Gaussian centered as
a prediction that is double transposed X,
and the variance equal to sigma
squared times the identity matrix.
Finally, the probability of the weights
would be a Gaussian centered around zero,
with the covariance matrix sigma
squared times identity matrix.
All right, so here are our formulas, and
now let's train the linear regression.
So we'll do this in the following way.
Let's compute the posterior probability
over the weights, given the data.
So this would be probability
of parameters given and
the data, so those are y and x.
So using a definition of
the conditional probability,
we can write that it is P (y,
w | X) / P (y | x).
So let's try not to compute the full
posterior distribution, but
to compute the value at which there is
a maximum of this posterior distribution.
So we'll try to maximize this
with respect to the weights.
We can notice that the denominator
does not depend on the weights,
and so we can maximize only the numerator,
so we can cross it out.
All right, so now we should
maximize P (y, w | X).
And this actually given by our model.
So we can plug in this formula,
this would be P (y | X, w) p (w).
And we want to maximize it
with respect to the weights.
All right, we can take
the logarithm of this part, and
since the logarithm is concave, the
position of the maximum will not change.
So we can take the logarithm
of theta here,
and the logarithm here.
And so this will be equivalent
to the previous problem.
All right, now we can plug in the formulas
and try to solve the optimization problem.
So we have
log P (y | X,
w) + log
P (w).
We can plug in the formulas for
the normal distribution and
obtain the following result.
So it will be log of some normalization
constant C1 x exp(-1/2).
So the mean is w transposed x, so
this would be (y- w transposed x),
times the inverse of
the covariance matrix.
So it would be sigma squared I inversed,
and finally, y- w transposed x.
And we have to close all the brackets,
right?
And in a similar way,
we can write down the second term,
so this would be log C2 x exp(-1/2),
and this would be w
transposed gamma squared I
inverse w transposed, since the mean is 0.
All right, so we can take the constants
out of the logarithm, and
also the logarithm of the exponent
is just identity function.
So what we'll have left is minus one-half.
The inverse of identity
matrix is identity matrix,
and the inverse of sigma squared
is one over sigma squared.
So we'll have something like this.
Y- w transposed x transposed
x y- w transposed x.
And finally, we'll have a term-
1 / 2 gamma squared w transposed w.
This thing is actually a norm, so
we'll have a norm of w squared.
This is w squared.
And this is also a norm of y-
w transposed x squared.
So we try to maximize this thing,
with respect to w.
It will multiply it by- 1 and
also to sigma, times to sigma squared.
We'll count to the minimization
problem from the maximization problem.
And finally, the formula would be
the norm of this thing squared,
plus some constant lambda
that equals to sigma
squared over gamma squared,
times norm of the w squared.
And since we multiplied by 1,
it is a minimization problem.
So actually,
the first term is sum of squares.
So we solved the least squares problem.
And the second term is a L2 regularizer.
And so
by adding a normal prior on the weights,
we turned from this quest problem
to the L2 regularized linear regression.
[SOUND]
[MUSIC]